He does not go back on his promise.
Now, those words say a lot about a person, don't they?
What Bible examples are there of those who please Jehovah by keeping their promise?
And what is in store for those who do so even when it is bad for them?
Well, we know Jesus, of course, is a foremost example of one who kept his promise to do
Jehovah as well, but imperfect people too have displayed loyalty by keeping their promises.
For instance, in Joshua 9, we read that the Ghiblianites tricked the chieftains of Israel
into concluding a covenant of peace with them, unwittingly the Israelites promised not
to destroy Ghiblian.
What makes this of special interest is that those disguised men were part of the high-vite
nation which was considered to be a threat to Israel.
And Joshua 10 verse 2, it says, that all of Ghiblian's men were warriors.
What happened when Israel learned the truth?
Joshua 9 verse 18 tells us the Israelites did not attack them because the chieftains of
the assembly had sworn an oath to them by Jehovah the God of Israel.
Did Jehovah prove of their decision not to attack them?
Yes, he did, as events recorded in Joshua 10 go on to prove, and we'll come back to
that in a few minutes.
In another example, Mordecai urged Esther to go in before King Haji Eres and plead for
his favor on behalf of the Jews.
Now, Esther knew that going in unannounced could mean her life.
Mordecai, however, reasoned with her about the matter, and the importance of doing so
and Esther gave him her word that she would go in.
Please notice what she says in Esther chapter 4 and verse 16.
In the final part of that verse, she's really giving her word.
She says, I will go into the king, which is against the law.
And if I am to perish, I will perish.
What we know how it turned out for Esther, Mordecai, and the Jews, Esther kept her word
and they were all blessed for it, weren't they?
Why did such ones live up to their word?
Because among other things, they had qualities such as faith, loyalty, and love for Jehovah
and for others.
The chieftains of Israel had faith and viewed Jehovah as real and being aware of their
promise to the Ghibbi inites.
Out of faith and loyalty, they would not go back on their word.
Also Esther was moved by love to see the greater good and to put her own life at risk in order
to help her people.
Now going back to our second question, what is in store for those to keep their promises
even when it is bad for them?
Let's look at the principle found at Mark chapter 4 and verse 24.
Now here Jesus said in part, with the measure that you are measuring out, you will have
it measured out to you.
Yes, you will have more added to you.
Well, what is the principle here?
As the context shows, Jesus was speaking about a person receiving information and enlightenment
by paying attention to his words.
But this thought of having more added can be seen in many ways, for example.
When we're loyal to Jehovah, he often blesses us with more than we might expect at times
even a surprise.
Saul made four eleven says of him, Jehovah will not hold back anything good from those
walking in integrity.
Now going back to what happened with Israel and the Ghibbi inites, we read in Joshua chapter
8 that in an earlier battle against AI, Jehovah helped Israel with a strategy that led
to victory.
But the account does not say that he performed astounding miracles in doing so.
On the other hand, in Joshua chapter 10, we find something more.
After the Ghibbi inites tricked the chieftains of Israel into making that covenant of peace
with them, the Ghibbi inites were threatened by an alliance of five kings of the Emirates.
What would the Israelites do?
As we know, they kept their promise and went to defend one out to defend the Ghibbi inites.
In verse 7 of chapter 10, we read that Joshua and all his fighting men went out to do this.
As they kept their word, Jehovah blessed them.
In verse 8, he said to them, do not be afraid, not one of them will also be able to stand
against you.
Because Jehovah was pleased with their decision, wasn't he?
He showed his approval in a marvelous way.
Giant hailstones dropped down on their enemies.
And even the sun remained motionless in the sky for about a whole day.
Chapter 10 in verse 14 says, there has never been a day like that one.
Either before it or after it.
And Jehovah listened to the voice of a man for Jehovah was fighting for Israel.
Yes, Jehovah really loved the Israelites, didn't he, for keeping their promise?
And when the Israelites went to war for Ghibbi in, he supported them.
Or as they say, he poured it on.
Have you ever sensed Jehovah doing that for you when you stick to a difficult task to
a promise?
Isn't it true that when we do so, we often look back and see blessings that we never
anticipated.
Among other things, we might be surprised at how our faith has grown, how our love has
deepened, and how things that we may have once viewed as overwhelming are now manageable.
One Bethelite who endured in his assignment, in spite of the loss of his mother, said this.
He also included some mistreatment by others, he said, sometimes we go through something
we've never experienced before.
And we may not understand why Jehovah does not do a specific thing we request.
But when we endure, we see one, his greater comprehension of the overall situation,
and two, his desire for us to rely on him and know that he's there for us, and that
we've not lost his favor when we experience a difficult time in our life.
As Jehovah helps us, we have to do as Genesis 24, 21 says, and stare in amazement as he answers
our prayers.
End of quote.
Well, that's a beautiful thought, and so the blessings may take a while, but we can
trust that Jehovah will be there to help us at the right time.
That happened with Job, he once said, until I die, I will not renounce my integrity.
And he lived up to those words, didn't he?
So much so that after enduring great sorrow and suffering, he was able to say, my ears have
heard about you, but now I do see you with my eyes.
Yes, Job's faith grew, and as we know, Jehovah eventually restored Job's health, doubled
his wealth, and blessed him with a beautiful family.
We benefit from such Bible accounts, like Jehovah's servants in the past, we may suffer
from persecution and justice, disaster's grief, disappointments, or serious illness.
In addition, we may have to work hard to fulfill our promise to be a good husband, wife,
or a friend in time of need.
The list is long, but despite the difficulties or even the pain at times, we can do it.
We can imitate the faith of past and present examples and live up to our promises, including
of course, our dedication vow to Jehovah.
Since Jehovah often does more for us than we might expect, we are confident that what
he holds out for our future is greater than we can now imagine, as Psalm 3119 says of
Jehovah, how abundant your goodness is, you have stored it up for those who fear you.